So want to do a quick shortening of this array value.
So the variable that we've set is tile flipped over.
So I actually want to shorten that and I'm going to replace it with T.F. all.
So that will just shorten it quite a bit.
And so these are this is the ray where we're holding all of the tiles that are flipped over.
So do a quick update of that.
And let's go out and just make sure that everything is working properly so no match.
So we are working properly.
So the objective of this lesson is that we need to hide those values that we flipped over and we know
the last two values that we have within our tile flipped over array are going to take contained the
last two values.
And we also know that they don't notch from what we've done up here within our conditions.
So that means that we can simply remove them out of the array and bring our way back to the initial
value.
So this is what we're going to do here where we're going to pop out that tile flipped over and we're
going to use the array method pop.
So we're going to get the ID first.
And this is getting the ID.
So this now is title EF 0.
And what we want to do is use the method to remove it out of that array.
So let's pop that allows us to do that and the next thing that we need to do is document get element
by ID.
And we know that when we pop it out of the array that we can set it into the variable because we saw
that before where we can return a value and it returns the value that was removed.
So now we know that we can grab that ID and we can update the inner h to Mel and we're going to set
it back to what we had initially where we just had the click value.
So let's go ahead and update that
so we originally had set.
This was our value.
So we're going to just reset it back.
And if you have a tile that you're using for the back of it you can do that as well.
So basically this will reset it back to its original initial value.
Remove it out of our array and then we need to do a few other things too.
So we need to clear that interval.
So we've got that timer that's going to run.
And we did set it to set interval.
So this one will continue to run this interval every second.
Continue to try to run hide card.
So we got to do a clear and remove that.
Let's also update the card flipped so we know that we had the card flipped.
So now that we flipped them both back it can go back to equaling negative 1.
And let's update the message that we've got.
Out to the users as well.
Click or select again.
So let's try it go back and refresh it.
Hit start and we've got to flip to cut fat to over and we actually found a match there.
So let's do two more and something is going wrong here because we're not actually supposed to flip over
the ones that are flipped over.
So let's go back in and see what's going on here that we're not supposed to be flipping them back over.
And what's actually happening is we forgot to set some of the settings.
So if we don't want the cards to flip over any more over here we've got the matches found.
And we also need to set card flipped to negative one.
So let's try this again.
So it we did find a match there and we found a match there and we see that.
So that's working better so that was the problem there that we weren't resetting the card flipped.
And when we were going back in here that was basically messing around with how many cards we've got
flipped over so I kept thinking that we've flipped over more cards so we have to always reset back to
the default and allow the users to continue to flip over cards.
So we've got quite a bit of the game play going and we see that we're still running into a few issues
here.
So one of them is that I can actually click a whole bunch of cards and I'm loosing my sync that I'm
only allowed to have two that are playable.
So this is where we need to have the lockout.
So we need to lock the play while we're we've already flipped over two cards to allow that to turn back.
So that's one of the problems here that we're not locking this out and we do do also need to do a check
to make sure that we are locking it out.
Another problem too is we can keep clicking these.
So we're not actually removing that on click event.
So that's the other thing that we need to make sure.
So we need to make sure that not an array of flipped over so that we can't keep flipping that same card.
So if it is in that array then we're going to skip that and also not locked it.
So we need to have a condition here.
So basically let's set up our condition and this condition is basically going to wrap most of our function
here and it's going to go all the way to here.
And we're going to have an else that's just going to say that Luckett so locked out.
So basically when we're locked out then we don't want anyone to be able to play or click or anything
like that.
So let's let's set our lockout that we did set up a variable for that earlier so the lockout.
So basically once they've flipped over two cards we're going to lock them out from flipping over any
more cards until we can actually do our check.
So let's lock it to true.
And that should be an equal sign.
So we're setting our lockout to true and the next thing that we need to do as well is we need to make
sure that lockout is not not true.
So if lockout is false that we can continue our game play.
And the other thing that we wanted to do is check to see if a tile is in the array.
So for now let's try this one and just see that we can only click two tiles and we can't click any more.
So we've got this lockout here and we need to also remove our lockout down here when we're hiding the
cards.
That's another thing that we need to add in that we've got that play lockout.
So let's set play lockout back to false so that the user can then click on another set of cards.
So go back to it refresh it.
So now we should only be able to select two cards and we're locked out.
So this would help a little bit with the game play.
And basically we're still locked out.
So we did found a match and we're still locked out.
So we need to update the lock as well.
If we found a match then we're not going to remove the lock.
So every time we do the card flipped minus one that we're also removing the locket.
So the game play seems to be working much better now.
We're not getting any of those errors so even though I'm clicking all over the place we see that we
are things are working properly and we also need to add in when we can finish up.
And the other thing that we need to add in is that we can't click the ones that are already selected.
So what I want you to do now pause the video and create a function where we can check to see if a value
is within an array.
So we need two parameters that we're going to pass a value and the array and this will check to see
if the value is within the array.
So the value and the array value.
So go ahead and update this function and we're going to make use of it up here.
We're checking to see if the play lock out.
And we're also going to check to see if the value that we've just clicked is actually within the array.
So does the video try that out and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So the solution is just one line of code and we're going to take that array and we're going to use index
of.
So we've used this several times before where we see if we get that value.
And if the value is greater than negative 1 then we know that it's actually in that array.
If it's negative 1 then we know that it's not in there right.
So that's all we have to do so is going to return a boolean value of true or false.
And this is perfect for what we need it when we pick our value that we want to make sure and check to
see if that value is not in the array.
And we're going to use that.
And so we want to check to see if player lockout is false and we're going to check to see if an array
and this is where we need to pass over that array.
So the array is T.F. oh so much shorter than it was originally.
And also we need to check to see if the value.
So that's the T ID.
And we're going to pass over the array so we're passing over the value and then passing over the array
and we're seeing if it's actually in there.
And let's let's just make sure things are working properly.
So whenever we click at
we should be locked out of actually clicking.
So let's click some of them and we see that we're clicking and we're locked out of the clicking.
So we're not able to click multiple items anymore.
And it is waiting.
So I also want to make sure that we can't click ones that are already flipped over.
So basically it's telling us that it's locked out.
What I'm trying to click the tiles that are already flipped.
So when I click those it just says locked out.
So that's exactly what we want we want them to be looked at.
We don't want users to be able to pick up and click them and click them over again.
So we're able to effectively lock the ability to click and click the tiles.
There's a few more things that we need to add in and a few finishing touches that we need to put up
on the game.
We need to be able to tell if the game is over.
So that's one of the things and then we also need the ability to start the game again and that we can
we can work on an upcoming lesson.